Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Sci-fi, Drama, Thriller
film from 2017, titled The Circle.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Mae Holland is on a kayak in the middle of
a lake.
Her phone rings but she ignores it and continues
what seems to be her favorite hobby.
We are then introduced to her typical day
of work at a water company, answering calls
of angry customers.
Her exhausting day is far from being over
as her car breaks on her way back home.
She calls her friend Mercer, who is a handy
guy, helping her fix her car.
Despite his successful job at fixing the car,
his attempt of inviting Mae for a dinner that
night turns out to be a failure.
Once home, Mae is having dinner with her parents
who are pretty fond of Mercer and definitely
not shy to suggest that they should be a couple.
Much to their dismay, Mae is not welcoming
the idea.
Another aspect of Mae’s family is shown
during this dinner: Mae’s dad has Multiple
Sclerosis and it is not covered by insurance.
“Another day, another opportunity”, a
saying that was pretty literal for Mae, as
in the midst of yet another hectic day, she
got a call from her friend Annie, saying that
the company she’s working for is hiring
up to a hundred people and that Mae should
take the interview the next day.
Ex-Hermione was delighted to hear the news
and so she excitedly headed to The Circle
the following day for the interview.
Your typical interview?
Not really.
But Mae was able to make it through and is
now part of The Circle customer experience
team.
Annie then introduces Mae to the many facilities
the company has, from headquarters of different
departments to leisure and sports.
Mae is pretty surprised, but just then, before
she could elaborately express her thoughts,
her extremely busy friend leaves her in the
hands of the customer experience unit head.
Mae is shown a demonstration of how to deal
with customers and the metrics used to rate
her performance.
Mae was hoping to get her score above 90 but
Annie reassured that her 87 score was satisfactory
for the first week.
The reassurance sunk in as the friends got
seated at The Circle conference “Dream Friday”.
It is hosted by Bailey, a laid-back CEO making
jokes here and there, while introducing the
company’s latest innovation SeeChange.
SeeChange is cameras as small as a coin and
that can be implemented anywhere without being
noticed.
The moral motive behind this, according to
Bailey, is tracking wrongdoers and holding
them accountable in order to make a change
in the community.
This announcement is followed by a party featuring
the artist Beck.
Annie then takes Mae to a somehow secret place
where she makes her say a verbal non-disclosure
statement, as what goes on there is extremely
confidential being the place where the magic
happens.
Annie has to rush to catch a flight to Australia,
too much for business trips if you ask me.
Mae is then left alone.
She makes her way back to the party and tries
to start a conversation with who she assumed
to be a fellow employee.
The man was busy on his phone, still he welcomed
the conversation with Mae.
Since she seemed excited about her new position
he guessed that she was a newbie or one of
the “guppies”, as Bailey liked to call
them.
He strangely told her, with a hint of sarcasm,
to keep on that excitement as he left for
an urgent matter.
Mae spent the weekend at a certain gathering
with her parents who are proud of her for
making it to the “Greatest company of the
country”.
They’re still trying to pimp her up with
Mercer but Mae isn’t so fond of the idea
and she goes as far as saying some hurtful
words to him, degrading to some extent.
Once back at the table with her parents, her
dad has an episode and her mom escorts him
back inside.
Feeling overwhelmed, Mae goes kayaking as
she lets her sorrows roll down her cheeks
in the form of tears.
A new week for Mae at The Circle and as she
is watching the news coverage about the senator
questioning The Circle’s true intentions,
she is interrupted by two of her co-workers.
They try to make her feel guilty about not
attending some gatherings and activities during
the weekends and seek personal information
that they note down on their tablets.
They were building a profile of Mae and wanted
to know everything about her.
They seemed to know about her father’s MS
that she hasn’t mentioned before and went
on as far as telling her to catch up with
the eight thousand group messages.
The exchange was an explicit privacy violation
sugar-coated by the purpose of enhancing the
sense of community.
Mae is left in disbelief but she still does
her best to boost her efforts and she finally
achieves a perfect score.
She has a brief call with her mom that updates
her on her father’s health.
Mae feels sorry that she’s not there for
them as she stays at the dorm to keep up with
her work.
During the video call, she notices her friend’s
Mercer’s latest work, a pretty chandelier
that she shares on The Circle community group.
Busy Annie is back and she introduces Mae
to Dr. Jessica who performs her medical intake
that is none-other than daily data stored
on the company’s Cloud and available via
the employees’ tablets.
The Doctor offers to get Mae’s parents on
their health plan which takes Mae over the
moon as it is an opportunity to save her father.
Next up is a conference by Tom, Bailey’s
associate, and hosting a senator candidate
who advocates accountability through data
sharing via the TrueYou page.
Another afterparty calls for another unusual
talk.
This time with an employee who works in iris
scanning and tracking, boasting about how
they can save children from predators with
their technology.
Mae is amazed until she is told that it is
not through a worn bracelet but a chip implemented
in the bone.
While Mae is trying to make sense of what
she heard she spots the same guy from last
time, busy on his phone once again.
When she walks up the stairs to greet him
he shoves his phone in his pocket and after
they exchange a few words he suggests showing
her something to which she complies and heads
downstairs.
Upon introducing her to where the data is
stored the guy reveals his identity as Ty
Laffite, creator of TrueYou.
He doesn’t approve of monetizing personal
data and discarding privacy.
Mae is shocked but she accepts to keep this
encounter a secret.
The next day Mae has a visitor, Mercer, who
has been receiving death threats for being
a deer killer upon the picture that Mae shared
with the group.
Upset, Mae trespasses to get the kayak at
night and goes into an agitated bay.
She is knocked off her kayak and is holding
on for dear life,when a helicopter and rescuers
save her.
According to them, it was thanks to the SeeChange
cameras that she was spotted and saved.
What follows is an interview held by Bailey
where Mae talks about how frightening her
experience was and that it was thanks to the
SeeChange Cameras that she was saved.
Then through a smart manipulative speech Bailey
comes to the conclusion that everything should
be shared, it is selfish not to share, and
that secrets are lies.
Mae Holland is the first subject to have a
portable SeeChange camera 24/7.
Within the ecstatic crowds applauding his
initiative we notice a very distraught Annie,
unlike her previous enthusiastic self and
also a disappointed Ty.
And so, Mae is being watched from waking up
in the morning and doing her most basic hygiene
routine up to making calls with her parents,
and her day at work.
She is in her 3rd week of transparency with
2.3 million viewers currently watching.
When she’s back at her dorm room she checks
on her folks through their camera and catches
them being intimate, for the whole world to
see.
Mae is embarrassed but tries to brush it off.
She tries checking on them again but their
cameras are disconnected.
The following day, on her way around campus,
Mae spots Annie but the latter avoids her
and keeps walking till Mae calls her by her
full name.
Mae has 3 mins off of video for bathroom usage
and that’s where she gets to have a private
talk with haggard Annie who tells Mae that
she’s way deep in and there are things she
doesn’t realize.
During a meeting about vote registration,
Mae suggests taking it up a notch and make
it mandatory for everyone to vote through
Circle, for ideally democratic countries where
everybody’s voice is heard.
Annie tries to knock sense into her during
the meeting but to no avail.
On the other hand, the idea of glorifying
the circle through this initiative is more
than welcomed by Bailey.
Mae is then given the spotlight as she announces
during a conference that her idea is now possible
as 22 countries have agreed to it.
During the same conference, she introduces
SoulSearch: a way to find anyone anytime,
under twenty minutes.
And so she gives a demo by looking for a fugitive
that ends up being found through the eyes
of the billions of people using The Circle.
That only fuels the exhilarating crowd who
wants more and is now suggesting Mercer.
Mae declines the shouting crowd’s demands
but Bailey steps in and forces her to do it.
Ty is watching the full conference.
Mercer is found by strangers around the forest
, they try to barge in his house while calling
him a deer killer.
Mercer manages to get in his car but they
go as far as following him.
The pursuit ends tragically with Mercer drifting
off the bridge down a ravine and dying.
Mae is grieving back at her parents’ home
for 4 days.
She calls Annie who’s in Scotland, she tries
to convince her to back off the Circle, especially
after what happened, but Mae seems brainwashed
and doesn’t hold The Circle accountable,
and still believes that the services can be
improved to avoid such accidents.
On her way back to work, she calls Ty.
Mae declines Bailey and Tom’s suggestion
of taking another position with a more flexible
schedule like Ty Laffite and she just enforces
the fact that a fund should be set for Mercer's
family.
Ty calls Mae and they meet underground by
the cloud storage.
He tells Mae that he did what she instructed
and that he discovered so many things way
more dangerous than he thought and that Mercer’s
death could be a game changer.
Mae nods and heads back to the conference
hosted by Bailey.
Mae joins the discussion and calls Tom to
join the stage as well.
She goes on about how Mercer could’ve been
still alive if they had never lost contact
to begin with, through accessible locating
and information anywhere anytime.
She then holds up two SeeChange cameras and
turns to Bailey and Tom asking them to be
fully transparent as well.
The men are taken aback but it only gets worse
for them as Mae discloses their personal files,
secret ones and even encrypted ones and sends
them to the crowds.
That marks the ends of the two as Mae rises
to be the new leader for a better Circle.
The last scene is Mae kayaking on the Bay
with a couple of drones hovering over her.
The image then zooms out to reveal hundreds
of video shots from different countries and
different people.
That’s quite the ending that leaves unanswered
questions: Was Mae in it with Ty all along
trying to throw Bailey off?
What changes will Mae make to the Circle?
Will privacy be forever lost?
The end.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.